Return
Classic
Modified
Manual
Classic Mode:

-Players:
 Two.

-Objective:
To checkmate the opposing King.

-Mechanics:
By turns, starting with White, with exactly one move per turn and with a fixed initial
with a fixed initial position of the pieces, until a player achieves the objective, 
surrender or a draw occurs. objective, surrenders or a draw situation occurs (stalemate).
It is not possible to pass or move more than once in any case.

-Specifications:
Both players are positioned facing each other and separated by the board, which
must be placed between them in such a way that the square in the right corner closest to 
each player is white.Each of the horizontal lines are called rows and the vertical lines
are called columns.

The squares are usually identified by coordinates in the following way: one
letter [a..h] for the column followed by a number [1..8] for the row, and taking as the
originating from the lower left corner of the player with White.
Each player has at his disposal a group of 16 pieces of the same color with specific 
names and characteristics that represent his army.names and characteristics that represent
his army. The player can in move pieces only from his army according to the legal rules of
the particular move.In addition, each piece has the ability to capture enemy pieces,which 
are removed from the board.

 The 16 pieces of each army consist of:
	 1 King
	 1 Queen
	 2 Bishops
	 2 Knights
	 2 Rooks
	 8 Pawns

 The initial arrangement of the pieces in the game is as follows:
	 The 8 Pawns occupy the eight squares of the second row of each player.
	 The 2 Rooks occupy the corners of the first row.
	 Next to the Rooks are placed the Knights and then the Bishops.
	 In the central squares of the first row are placed the King and the Queen in such
	 a way that the color of the Queen coincides with the color of the King.
	 that the color of the Queen coincides with the color of the square. 

-Moves:
Any move made by a player during his turn must always respect these
maxims, which are considered a priority:
	 No piece can leave the board, nor can there be two on the same square.
	 A player may not capture pieces from his own army.
	 A player may not make a move that leaves his own King in check at the end of the 
	 turn, i.e.,that leaves two pieces on the same square.
	 the opponent could capture it in his turn.
Each type of piece moves as follows (in order of simplicity):

Rook

Movement: as many squares as desired along the same row or column as the original one, 
with a limit at the end of the board or the first piece found on the way. If the
piece is an enemy piece, it is within range.

Capture: if an enemy piece is reachable, it can be captured by placing the rook on the 
square occupied by the piece. rook on the square occupied by the enemy piece and removing
it from the board.

Bishop

Movement: as many squares as desired along one of the four diagonals starting from the 
piece, up to the square occupied by the enemy piece. starting from the piece, until the
end of the board or the first piece found. If the piece is an enemy piece, it is within 
range.

Capture: the Bishop is placed on the square occupied by the opponent's piece, and the 
latter withdraws retreats.

King

Movement: it works like the Queen but only one square at a time, i.e. it can only move
to adjacent squares.
 
Capture: any enemy piece placed on any of the 8 adjacent squares can be captured, placing
the King on it and removing the enemy piece.

Note that in particular it implies that the King cannot be moved next to the other, as it 
would be in turn the other, since it would be in turn attacked by the opponent.

Knight

Movement: it can move to one of the 8 squares that are located at a certain distance from
it, regardless of the enemy pieces. distance from it, regardless of the pieces that may be
in between. Each of these each of these destination squares forms an "L" shape from the 
initial square. All of them are of a different color from the initial square. 

Capture: any enemy piece located in a destination square of a Knight, regardless of the 
pieces in between, can in between, can be captured by moving it there and removing the 
captured piece.

Pawn

Movement: forward, on the same column, one square at a time. If it is the
first time this pawn is moved (it is still in the second row) it can move 1 or 2 squares.
1 or 2 squares.

Capture: unlike the other pieces, they do not capture as they move. Each
Each pawn attacks the two squares that are diagonally forward, so that when capturing, they
change column.they change column. Any enemy piece that is located on these attacked squares
can be captured.

In addition, a Pawn has an additional way to capture enemy pawns
in a certain circumstance (en passant capture). To do so:
	 The original Pawn must be on its fifth rank.
	 The opponent's pawn must be in its original position on an adjacent column.
	 The opponent must advance his pawn two steps, so that both pawns are on the same 
	 file.together on the same row.
	 At that moment, if the player wants, he can capture the enemy as if he had only moved 
	 one square, i.e., moving his own diagonally to the next row and withdrawing his
	 to the next row and withdrawing the captured one. If he decides to ignore the capture
	 in that turn, he will lose the right to do so.

This is the only capture in the game in which the capturing piece does not end up on the 
captured piece's square of the captured piece.

-Crowning: when a pawn reaches the last row it has to be exchanged (crowned)
by a Knight, Bishop, Rook or Queen, even if the player already has that piece. In this way
This way it is possible to increase one's own strength by being able to have, for example,
several Checkers at one's disposal Checkers. This substitution is included in the same 
turn of the pawn.

-A special move: castling
Castling is the only move in which two pieces are moved in the same turn: the King and
a Rook.own pieces: the King and a Rook. This move can only be made by each player once
in the whole game. the whole game, being optional but complying with a series of 
requirements, one of them being that would make it permanently impossible and others
only temporarily:
	 It must be the first move of both the King and Rook to castle.
	 If the King is moved, castling is impossible for the rest of the game.
	 If the Rook is moved, it is still possible to use the other Rook.
	 There must not be any piece between the King and the Rook, neither friendly nor opposing.
	 The King cannot be in check (attacked) at that moment, neither its destination square, nor 
	 the one in between.
	 or the square in between. Other squares, such as the Rook's origin, can be in check.
	 be in check.

The move is carried out in this order regardless of the side on which it is made.

castling: first the King is moved two squares towards the Rook and then the Rook is moved
to the adjacent square. the Rook is moved to the square adjacent to the other side of 
the King. 

-Check
A player is said to be in check when his King is being attacked by one or two enemy pieces.
or two enemy pieces, and it would be possible for the opponent to capture it the following
turn. No is not obligatory to explicitly announce the check. Following the rules, the 
player must act accordingly so that this situation disappears in his turn. To do so, he
can:
	 Capture the attacking piece, if he has any piece that does so, and there is only
	 one piece attacking.there is only one piece attacking.
	 Put a piece in the middle as a shield, if the attacking piece is not a Knight 
	 and there is no more than one piece attacking. Knight and there is not more than 
	 one piece attacking.
	 Move the King to a square such that it is no longer in check, if there is a King attacking.

-Checkmate

When a check occurs and a player cannot execute any move that would allow him to resolve
the situation, he has that allows him to resolve the situation, he has lost the game.

-Tables

There are many possibilities to end a game in a draw:
	 A player who is not in check cannot move on his turn (stalemate).
	 Both players have agreed to a draw.
	 There has been a repetition of the same position 3 times (not necessarily with the same
	 moves, but with the same moves).
	 moves necessarily, but with the same pieces and the same possible moves for both sides).
	 There are not enough pieces on either side to force a checkmate.
	 If there are any pawns left, it does not apply. Possible cases: King vs. King, King vs.
	 King against King and Knight or Bishop.
	 There is a sequence of 50 moves of each side in a row without a capture or pawn move.
	 capture or pawn move. 
